I should be more productive is something
that so many of us are telling ourselves
all the time and it's preventing us from
getting to where we really want to go.
In this coaching session that happened
during one of our live Q&As, we meet a
woman who's struggling with exactly
that. And when she really digs down deep
into it, she finds out that the thing
she wants is already there. I get in
like these loops where uh you know I
feel guilty for not doing something or
something that I want to do or something
that I should do even if it's something
that would make me happy um or something
that I would like to do. I I feel guilty
about not doing it even though it's a
goal I set for myself. And then that
makes it harder to do. And so I'm like
let me stop feeling guilty about it. And
I do and I don't do it. And then I feel
bad about that. And yeah, I I kind of
get in these kind of uh loops of guilt
and I know logically that I should like
stop guilting myself about it and stop
shooting myself about it, but also that
I shouldn't just stay still all the
time. You got a ton of shoods. That is a
lot of shoods you got going on there.
Should do this, shouldn't do this,
should like you've got a cage of shoods.
Yeah, it's intense. That is what it's
like. Yeah. Yeah. So, if you couldn't
have a should, what would you have to
feel? Let's let's pick one of the
things. What's the thing that you should
yourself for the most? You should what?
It's probably all about like trying to
be uh different in some way.
Like, give me a specific I want a
specific like what's the one specific
thing that you should yourself for? Like
you should stop smoking. You should Oh,
I should be more productive, I guess.
Okay, cool. You should be more
productive. Great. So, if you couldn't
feel the should, you couldn't feel that
sense of obligation and guilt, what
would you have to feel?
[Music]
Uh, maybe
When when you asked me that question
initially, what sprang to mind
immediately was like aimlessness. Great.
Let's feel aimlessness for a bit.
Yeah. What's happening in your tummy
right now? Uh, I guess it's feels kind
of clenched. Okay, cool. Let's go feel
that.
Now you're not feeling, you're kind of
spacing out. Keep feeling. Yeah. All
right. So, your first distraction from
this feeling is should. Your second
distraction is spacing out. Yeah. I
distract myself a lot. Yeah. All right.
And so I don't know if you've read it
recently, but or there's a we have a
podcast called the Golden Algorithm
where it talks about the emotion that
you're trying to avoid. You're inviting
in the exact way you're trying to avoid
it. I know. Yeah. I haven't listened to
the podcast, but yeah, I I've known
about that. Yeah. So, you try to avoid
aimlessness by telling yourself you
should, but it reinforces the
aimlessness.
Yeah. Um, cool.
And I I I do often wonder to myself like
what is it that I want to do instead of
like should and then I just come up with
more things to should myself about.
Correct. Yeah. Yeah. But but the so but
the trick is to actually fall in love
with the feeling of
aimlessness. Then you don't avoid
it. What's what like all these people on
the thing like who's not
aimless? I mean I am dedicated to
building this business and and and being
of service to folks here and doing this
stuff, right? But 10,000 years, 1,000
years, it just looks like an an ant, you
know, building an antill just like
everybody else. Like it's something like
to occupy your life with, I guess. Yeah,
I occupy my life with doing this. You
occupy your life with doing shoulds.
Both of them as probably as
consequential as the
other. So what's what's wrong with
feeling
aimless? I love the feeling of
aimlessness. I love it. If you told me
you have a choice, Joe, you can drive
aimlessly or you can drive in rush hour
to get to work on time. I'm gonna drive
aimlessly all day long.
Yeah, fair. Um I think I just You're
talking. You're not feeling You're not
doing the feeling part. Feel the
aimlessness.
It makes me panic a little bit. Okay,
cool. That's the next level. So, we've
got the should the guilt that sits on
top of the aimlessness, the aimlessness
that sits on top of
the
panic. Yeah. Great. And what's the
what's the what is that core panic
really about?
[Music]
Uh, it's I didn't think it'd be so hard
to answer questions from a place of
feeling because I feel like I've done it
before, but I keep feeling like thinking
instead of feeling. But yeah.
Um, uh, when I when I've noticed myself
feeling aimless, I feel like or or and
feeling panicked about that sense of
aimlessness. Uh, I guess it it feels
like there's no point to being alive at
all, I guess. Oh,
great.
Cool. Let's assume that's true for a
minute. Let's assume that it's like
there is actually no point. I'm not
saying it is or isn't true, but let's
just assume it for a second. What makes
that not freedom?
If there's no point, you can do anything
you want.
But I I can't keep on trying to do
things I want and I don't. Well, because
you're avoiding the
panic. But you can like for instance go
like
this. See, you can do that. You can do
anything you
want. That's That's pretty funny.
Right. So the so the panic is there, the
depression is there
clearly. Yeah. Because there's this idea
that oh my god, life has no meaning.
What's what what's not free about that?
I guess I just like I I've been feeling
really attached to this I think pretty
common long-term goal of
like being happy or something.
You don't have to tell me that. You know
the story. I know the story. We we all
know this story. I don't I'm I'm just
asking the question, what's wrong with
this like with what's wrong with seeing
this purposelessness, this existential
fear as your freedom?
How is it not? I mean, what if I like
get too bad and I want to kill
myself? Feel like I have to like protect
against that, you know, do have any
goal, right? That seems to be what you
do, right? That's the whole That's a
whole spin that you've got going. Yeah.
Yeah. Because you're protecting against
your freedom.
Let's just go to the Yeah. Let's just go
to the thing for a second. That panic is
that it's
purposelessness. What if the
purposelessness is actually
freedom? That it just means that you get
there's no purpose. So, you get to just
do anything you want. Anything.
things I don't like trust myself to be
able to do whatever I want because like
I'll keep trying to do things that I
sensibly want and I don't do them. So I
don't like trust myself with that
aimlessness or whatever or that
meaninglessness or lack of purpose. So
what makes you trust yourself to keep on
saying should to yourself? I I guess
it's just it's a I think it's just a
habit. I guess it seems safer. I guess
safe. You're sitting in a room beating
yourself up worrying about your death.
How is this safe? There's no safety in
this.
Yeah. So, there's something else
happening that every time you laugh, you
cover your mouth. Oh,
yeah. Wait. No, don't fix it. It's I
It's telling me something else, which is
like somehow or another your expression
isn't okay.
Yeah. I I'm I'm very uh quick to get
emotional, but I'm also like uh I also
have like an emotional depression
problem, too, which is interesting.
Yeah. Well, that's causing the on an
emotional level, that's what's causing
the depression.
Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. I do think
that's probably what's happening.
Yeah, but it's it's not just happening
in this moment of you covering your
mouth. It's happening like almost every
minute. There's like a way in which you
like you come alive and you're
like, "Yeah,
yeah, yeah,
yeah. Yeah." What? And and all I notice
in me is that my heart just [__]
leaps open when you're when you come out
of this this like when you come out of
the little emotional jail you put
towards yourself. I'm like, "Oh, look.
We're here together. Oh, she went away.
Oh, look. We're here together. Oh, she
went away."
Yeah. I think I I think that even when
I'm like have some level of emotional
repression going on, it's probably still
too much. uh my girlfriend she likes
your emotions are too much. Yeah. For
other people or you know I guess
who who you hanging out with? I guess I
mean my girlfriend she you have one
girlfriend who yeah
you know she tries really hard and she's
like really supportive but sometimes
it's too much for her. Your emotions are
too much for her or your depression's
too much for her? I mean the depression
that's a feeling too, right? No, it's
not.
No, depression and shoulds are the
repression of emotions.
Sadness is a feeling.
I mean, like, I'll get upset and she'll
be like, "Oh, man, you're upset all the
time."
I mean, and she's like she's she's she's
told me she's going to let me know when
she feels overwhelmed by it or whatever.
Can you show me? Can you show me what
upset looks
like when you get upset and it's too
much? I don't care about her, but like
tell me about this upsetness. Like, show
it to me. Like, just ask. It's just like
this. Like, if I I'm getting this. Yeah.
This is like an example like I I'm
emotionally activated or whatever and
I'm crying or something like that. Yeah.
Not too much for me. I appreciate that.
you want to let's just do it like I we
can't do hand if you can be in the chat
and just say if this is too much if this
is not too much for you can you just put
like a Y in the chat everybody
just to see like you might have a friend
look do you see all those Y's
but every day wouldn't it be a bit much
no if you did it every day it would stop
happening too it's the fact that you're
repressing it that makes this all like
she probably agrees with you too. Yeah.
Yeah. So, let's like leave all this. So,
so what's happening is you are not
feeling the emotion underneath. There's
a freedom that you have. You don't want
to feel the freedom because you're
emotionally locking yourself down. But
the solution to your entire issue is to
not emotionally lock yourself
down. That's what's happening. Just like
that's a simple thing of what's
happening and somehow or another you
just turned that into like a should or a
shame. You just like
Yeah. How'd you do that?
How? Yeah. How'd you do that?
Well, I mean I can give you like
backstory or whatever, but how is
interesting question.
Yeah. Yeah. I guess I I think that it's
a problem and so I should fix it. But
maybe it's actually not a problem. That
is
right. So what happens right now in this
moment? I want you to do me this favor.
I want you to not look in the past, not
look in the
future and tell me what's the problem
right now.
Yeah. You you you said something similar
last time I watched one of these to
someone else. And I was like, "Ah, he's
right. that there isn't really anything
wrong with this right now.
Yeah. So, you have this idea that
there's a problem that you have to
change. You repress yourself. You tell
yourself you should do [__] And it just
creates a life of depression, anxiety,
and it goes all the way down into, "Oh
my god, maybe this is purposeless and I
have to kill myself."
Yeah.
when you say like, "Oh, this is kind of
silly." Yeah. Yeah. And and here's the
cool here's the crazy thing is what's
all that's happening is your mind is
reflecting what you're doing, which is
you're killing yourself.
Yeah. Like you're literally restraining
yourself.
Yeah. Alternatively, you could just be
I hadn't really thought that I wasn't
doing it. I thought I'd been being
myself the whole time, but this is just
what I was like. Yeah. This is what
you're
like.
Smiling,
laughing, being expressive.
I have often said uh to my girlfriend
that like when I'm not like, you know,
in those patterns, when I get like a
reprieve, I seem actually pretty upbeat
as a person. Yeah. Yeah. My guess is
that when you were a kid, my guess is
you were a kid, you were spunky and
willful and it was too much for some
parents who were not spunky and willful.
That's my guess. And you believed them?
I did. I believed them. And it was crazy
because I rebelled really hard, but I
believed them somehow. Yeah, exactly.
But there is a whole group of community
that is like waiting for a spunky
willful
you. Yeah. And when I think about that,
like my brain is
like it comes up in all that stuff about
like, you know, oh, I'm I'm I'm lazy and
I won't actually be willful and I won't
actually be myself because I'm too
trapped in all these. But that's like a
story too that I'm just telling myself
that I'm used to telling myself or
something. That's right. Yeah. Okay. We
we don't have time to do it now. Um just
because we're going to end, but the the
the best the motion that is most
important is is for you is
anger. Moving anger is really going to
be an important thing for you. My
therapist said the same thing. Why is it
anger?
because you're really pissed at your
parents for telling you that you
couldn't be who you are and and every
time what's happening is every time
you're pissed you're beating yourself
up. So what's actually happening in your
system is like [__] that. Oh I'm the
problem. I'm the problem. Like so all
the shame all the anger that's going
outward is going inward as shame as
shoulds. Yeah. And so moving anger every
day, like I guarantee you if you move
anger every day for a month, if you if
Yeah, look, you did it again, right? If
you did anger every day for a month,
your your entire everything would
change. I'll make you a deal. I'll make
you a deal. If you do anger every day
for a month, I will give you the
connection course for free. I actually
already bought it. You should use I will
give you I will give you I will give you
the money back or or discount to of the
connection course for the next course
that you take if you get angry every day
for that be awesome. Yeah.
I'll I'll take your word for it. But
it's got to be like out loud visceral
anger.
[__] like verbaliz some exercise
from like the anger podcast one or Yeah.
Okay. Yeah. Move anger. Move anger.
Pleasure. Oh, can't make it a should.
That's the trick. That's That's the
trick about it. Pleasure to meet you.
Thank you. You're welcome. Nice to meet
you, too.